PHP Wrappers
PHP provides several protocol wrappers
that we can use to
exploit directory traversal
and local file inclusion vulnerabilities.
These filters give us additional flexibility
when attempting to inject PHP code
via LFI vulnerabilities.
We can use the data wrapper
to embed inline data
as part of the URL
with plaintext or base64 encoded data.
This wrapper provides us
with an alternative payload
when we can’t poison a
local file with PHP code.
Let’s take a closer look at
how to use the data wrapper.
We start it with “data:”
followed by the type data.
In this case, we’ll use
“text/plain” for plaintext.
We follow that with a comma
to mark the start of the contents,
in this case “hello world”.
We already know the menu page
is vulnerable to LFI attacks.
If we submit a payload
using a data wrapper,
the application should treat
it the same as a regular file
and include it in the page.
Let’s check if this works by submitting
he URL and checking the results.
As suspected, the application
treated the data wrapper
as if it was a file and
included it in the page,
displaying our “hello world” string.
Since a plaintext data wrapper worked,
let’s see how far we can push this.
We know there is an
LFI vulnerability on this page
and the previous example proves
we can inject content with a data wrapper.
Let’s replace “hello world” with some
PHP code and check if it executes.
We will use shell_exec
to run the dir command,
wrapping in PHP tags.
Let’s submit this and see if it works.
Excellent,
the PHP code we included in the data
wrapper was executed server-side,
producing a directory listing.
We can now exploit the LFI
without manipulating any local files.